README.md, before:

# Pynauty 

Pynauty can be used to compare graphs for isomorphism and to determine
their automorphism group in a Python programming environment.  Pynauty
is a Python/C extension module using library components from the
[Nauty](https://pallini.di.uniroma1.it/) package by Brendan McKay.


## Installation

### Requirements

  - Python 3.6 - 3.9
  - An ANSI C compiler 
  - The most recent version of Nauty, currently `nauty27r1`.

### Building from source

Clone this repository:

```bash
  git clone https://github.com/pdobsan/pynauty
```

and change into the `pynauty/` directory created by the cloning.

Nauty's source code is not distributed with `pynauty`, however it is
automatically downloaded during the building process. 

To build and test the package:

```bash
  make pynauty
  make tests
```

To install the `pynauty` package in `~/.local` (home install) and then
to generate the documentation:

```bash
  make user-ins
  make docs
```

It is also possible to install into a virtual environment. 

```bash
  % make virtenv-create
  python3 -m venv .venv-pynauty
  Created virtualenv: .venv-pynauty
  To activate it type: source ./.venv-pynauty/bin/activate
  % source .venv-pynauty/bin/activate
  (.venv-pynauty) % make virtenv-ins
  ...
```

Invoking `make` without arguments will list many more targets.

## Usage

```python
>>> from pynauty import *
>>> g = Graph(5)
>>> g.connect_vertex(0, [1, 2, 3])
>>> g.connect_vertex(2, [1, 3, 4])
>>> g.connect_vertex(4, [3])
>>> print(g)
Graph(number_of_vertices=5, directed=False,
 adjacency_dict = {
  0: [1, 2, 3],
  2: [1, 3, 4],
  4: [3],
 },
 vertex_coloring = [
 ],
)
>>> autgrp(g)
([[3, 4, 2, 0, 1]], 2.0, 0, [0, 1, 2, 0, 1], 3)
>>> 
```

## Documentation

For detailed documentation, API and User's Guide see the `docs/`
directory after building as above.

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first
to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License

Pynauty is distributed under the terms GPL v3 WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.
For exact details on licensing see the file COPYING.

_Copyright (c) 2015-2021 Peter Dobsan_

Commit message:

Moved up the virtenv-ins example.

README.md, after:

# Pynauty 

Pynauty can be used to compare graphs for isomorphism and to determine
their automorphism group in a Python programming environment.  Pynauty
is a Python/C extension module using library components from the
[Nauty](https://pallini.di.uniroma1.it/) package by Brendan McKay.


## Installation

### Requirements

  - Python 3.6 - 3.9
  - An ANSI C compiler 
  - The most recent version of Nauty, currently `nauty27r1`.

### Building from source

Clone this repository:

```bash
  git clone https://github.com/pdobsan/pynauty
```

and change into the `pynauty/` directory created by the cloning.

Nauty's source code is not distributed with `pynauty`, however it is
automatically downloaded during the building process. 

To build and test the package:

```bash
  make pynauty
  make tests
```

It is also possible to install into a virtual environment. 

```bash
  % make virtenv-create
  python3 -m venv .venv-pynauty
  Created virtualenv: .venv-pynauty
  To activate it type: source ./.venv-pynauty/bin/activate
  % source .venv-pynauty/bin/activate
  (.venv-pynauty) % make virtenv-ins
  (.venv-pynauty) % make virtenv-tests
  ...
```

Install the `pynauty` package in `~/.local` (home install) then generate
the documentation. Building the documentation from source requires the
Sphinx package.

```bash
  make user-ins
  make docs
```

Invoking `make` without arguments will list many more targets.

## Usage

```python
>>> from pynauty import *
>>> g = Graph(5)
>>> g.connect_vertex(0, [1, 2, 3])
>>> g.connect_vertex(2, [1, 3, 4])
>>> g.connect_vertex(4, [3])
>>> print(g)
Graph(number_of_vertices=5, directed=False,
 adjacency_dict = {
  0: [1, 2, 3],
  2: [1, 3, 4],
  4: [3],
 },
 vertex_coloring = [
 ],
)
>>> autgrp(g)
([[3, 4, 2, 0, 1]], 2.0, 0, [0, 1, 2, 0, 1], 3)
>>> 
```

## Documentation

For detailed documentation, API and User's Guide see the `docs/`
directory after building as above.

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first
to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License

Pynauty is distributed under the terms GPL v3 WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY.
For exact details on licensing see the file COPYING.

_Copyright (c) 2015-2021 Peter Dobsan_
