docs/source/intro.rst, before:

Introduction
============

**pynauty** is a Python/C extension module.  It can be used to compare
graphs for isomorphism and to determine their automorphism group.  It is
based on the Nauty_ C procedures.

The current version is 0.6.0

**pynauty**  is compatible with both Python 2.7 and Python 3.5.


Licence
-------

Copyright (c) 2015 Peter Dobsan

**pynauty** is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program.  If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.


Please note, *Nauty's source code is not distributed with this package*,
you need to download it separately. Nauty is covered by its own licencing
terms. For details, see `Nauty's web-site`_.

..  _Nauty's web-site:
.. _Nauty: https://cs.anu.edu.au/people/Brendan.McKay/nauty/

Commit message:

Modified package and Python versions.

docs/source/intro.rst, after:

Introduction
============

**pynauty** is a Python/C extension module.  It can be used to compare
graphs for isomorphism and to determine their automorphism group.

**pynauty** is using library components from the Nauty_ package by
Brendan McKay.

The current version is 0.7.0

**pynauty**  is compatible with Python 3.5 - 3.9


Licence
-------

Copyright (c) 2015-2021 Peter Dobsan

**pynauty** is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program.  If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.


Please note, *Nauty's source code is not distributed with this package*,
you need to download it separately. Nauty is covered by its own licencing
terms. For details, see `Nauty's web-site`_.

..  _Nauty's web-site:
.. _Nauty: https://cs.anu.edu.au/people/Brendan.McKay/nauty/
